ideas.md, before:

Team Name: 
Zeta

Application Name: 
Life on Track 

Team Overview:
Name: Britney Bourassa GitHub Username: bbourassa
Name: Sara Whitlock GitHub Username:
Name: Meghan Arnold GitHub Username: arnol24m

Innovative Idea:
Combining the branching and merging functional concept of GitHub with a calendar sharing functionality.

Important Components:
Our application is broken into the following components:
Premade calendars
Ability to create a calendars
Personal calendars
Shared calendars

The idea is that the application will be set up similar to how branches work in github. When the user signs up for the web app, they are given their own personal calendar which is the first, main part of our web app. This is where the events in any calendar that  the user subscribes to will appear. 
Aside from the personal calendar,  the user has the ability to create a calendar that will be shared with other users. The calendar creation allows  the user to create a calendar with two components - a simple calendar that tracks due dates as well as a to-do list set up for actions attached to that calendar. In creating a new calendar, the user has the ability to add events to the calendar setup or add tasks that can track due dates and completion progress. From there, they can share their calendar with any user they wish who is on the web app. 
This brings us to our next component which is essentially “pulling” from a subscription calendar. A user can subscribe to another user’s calendar and pick and choose the events/tasks they wish to “pull” from that calendar. Upon login or on manual update, the user will be able to update the information for those events/tasks from the updates made by the owner of the calendar on the ‘root’ version. Once an event/task is pulled onto the user’s personal calendar, they will be able to make their own individual updates to these items that only affect their personal calendar - i.e. things like how much of the particular task they have completed or when they want reminders about certain events - these updates allow the user to track their own progress without stepping on the toes of anyone else who is using the main calendar as well. 
We will allow a range of calendars to be created as well as supplying some ourselves - the user can make a calendar of almost anything they can think of such as getting a new song of the day, adding fun little reminders for themself or quotes to read. We will supply a few calendars that users can subscribe to such as “song of the day”, “article of the day”, “quote of the day”, etc. which will allow for users to expand their creativity and their learning by adding some fun features to their own personal calendars. 

A potential layout and example (very likely to change, this is preliminary!)

Commit message:

commiting edits for ideas.md Innovative Idea section

ideas.md, after:

Team Name: 
Zeta

Application Name: 
Life on Track 

Team Overview:
Name: Britney Bourassa GitHub Username: bbourassa
Name: Sara Whitlock GitHub Username:
Name: Meghan Arnold GitHub Username: arnol24m

Innovative Idea:
The primary innovative idea for our project is to combine the branching and merging functionality that is essential to GitHub with the calendar sharing aspects of Google Calendar and the to-do list capabilities that many scheduling tools employ. While no aspect of this is wholly unique, we hope that students will be able to leverage these functionalities during group projects. It could also be useful in business settings, household coordination, and general task management.

Important Components:
Our application is broken into the following components:
Premade calendars
Ability to create a calendars
Personal calendars
Shared calendars

The idea is that the application will be set up similar to how branches work in github. When the user signs up for the web app, they are given their own personal calendar which is the first, main part of our web app. This is where the events in any calendar that  the user subscribes to will appear. 
Aside from the personal calendar,  the user has the ability to create a calendar that will be shared with other users. The calendar creation allows  the user to create a calendar with two components - a simple calendar that tracks due dates as well as a to-do list set up for actions attached to that calendar. In creating a new calendar, the user has the ability to add events to the calendar setup or add tasks that can track due dates and completion progress. From there, they can share their calendar with any user they wish who is on the web app. 
This brings us to our next component which is essentially “pulling” from a subscription calendar. A user can subscribe to another user’s calendar and pick and choose the events/tasks they wish to “pull” from that calendar. Upon login or on manual update, the user will be able to update the information for those events/tasks from the updates made by the owner of the calendar on the ‘root’ version. Once an event/task is pulled onto the user’s personal calendar, they will be able to make their own individual updates to these items that only affect their personal calendar - i.e. things like how much of the particular task they have completed or when they want reminders about certain events - these updates allow the user to track their own progress without stepping on the toes of anyone else who is using the main calendar as well. 
We will allow a range of calendars to be created as well as supplying some ourselves - the user can make a calendar of almost anything they can think of such as getting a new song of the day, adding fun little reminders for themself or quotes to read. We will supply a few calendars that users can subscribe to such as “song of the day”, “article of the day”, “quote of the day”, etc. which will allow for users to expand their creativity and their learning by adding some fun features to their own personal calendars. 

A potential layout and example (very likely to change, this is preliminary!)
